---
layout: post
title:  "2024 Reading List"
date:   2024-09-02 09:00:00 +0100
categories: reviews
custom-excerpt: Highlights of what I've read this year
published: true
---

Some highlights of what I've read this year. I'm a painfully slow reader, but if I manage to get through anything else before January, I'll update this.

* [Chip War](#chip-war) - Chris Miller
* [Dracula](#dracula) - Bram Stoker
* [Homo Deus](#homo-deus) - Yuval Noah Harari
* [Children of Time](#children-of-time) - Adrian Tchaikovsky
* [Weaving the Web](#weaving-the-web) - Tim Berners-Lee
* [The Bees](#the-bees) - Laline Paull

## Chip War
_by Chris Miller_

I heard an interview with Chris Miller on Ezra Klein's podcast and had _Chip War_ on my reading list since. I started this as an audiobook, which was a bit heavy going. On paper, it rattles along through the post-war changes to the world economy and how these chunks of silicon were shaping that economy. Essential reading to understand Russia through the Cold War, and why China might eventually increase hostilities towards Taiwan.

## Dracula
_by Bram Stoker_

Probably something I should have read as a teenager. Each passing chapter felt like the birth of new horror tropes and gothic motifs. Reading it I finally understand countless cultural references. 

Iconic, and makes me want to take a trip back to Whitby.

## Homo Deus
_by Yuval Noah Harari_

I didn't find Harari's follow up to the incredibly popular _Sapiens_ quite as easy a read, struggling to find the through-line quite so intuitively. There's a perspective changing portion on evolution and free will that I found made the book though. 

## Children of Time
_by Adrian Tchaikovsky_

I turned the final pages of Adrian Tchaikovsky's _Children of Time_ on the last day of my week long solo holiday to the tiny Greek island of Ano Koufonisi (quite swift reading for me). 

One of the best sci-fi novels I've read - and I'm not a newbie. Tchaikovsky's purposeful arachnid world-building here is elevated through themes of evolution, intelligence and enlightment. Not for the spider phobic!

## Weaving the Web
_by Tim Berners-Lee_

From one type of web to another - completely unintentionally. I acquired this from a charity shop and it's been silently situated on my bookshelf for a decade. Perhaps because of a particular presentation I've been giving at work recently, I've finally started acquianting myself with this old account of the birth of the web. 

It's not the most poetic prose, reading, at times, more like 90's diary entries. However, it's a perfect time capsule of a different, exciting era, pubished the same year the first _Matrix_ movie released. There's a chapter which references this new thing being worked on, the _Document Object Model (DOM)_, which scrambled my head a bit - I can't imagine a time without that. 

Berners-Lee is generous is sharing the credit with his contemporaries, and his vision for what the web is and could be is genuinely inspiring. Important study in modern times of tech billionaires, social media misinformation and privacy regulation. Themes, coincidentally, that inventor of the web wrote on with piercing clarity a quarter of century ago.

## The Bees
_by Laline Paull_

Jen has been urging me for a while to start this, but for whatever reason I felt disinclined. A few chapters in though, and I had wished I'd started it ages ago. 

An interesting companion piece, albeit a very different genre, to _Children of Time_, Paull's characterisation of the hive and home of honey bee Flora 717 and her experience of world steeped as much in dogma and authoritarianism as it is in wax and nectar is a sensorial treat. Easy reading, but that's perhaps because the imagery is painted with seeming effortlessness. 

I watched an interview recently with Laline Paull where she cited Richard Adams' _Watership Down_ as inspiration. That has been on my bookshelf for as long as _Weaving the Web_, but _The Bees_ has put it somewhat higher on my reading list now.