---
layout: post
title:  "I passed my CPACC exam!"
date:   2024-09-23 09:00:00 +0100
categories: 
    - updates
custom-excerpt: I'm now a Certified Professional in Accessibility Core Competencies
---

## Certified Fresh!

After a few months of study and revision, I took, and passed, my CPACC exam. This means I'm now a [Certified Professional in Accessibility Core Compentencies](https://www.accessibilityassociation.org/s/certified-professional). I think the title is apt - the knowledge required for this exam covered lots of different aspects of accessibility, in reasonable detail. 

This is an internationally recognised qualification from the [International Association of Accessibility Professionals (IAAP)](https://www.accessibilityassociation.org/s/). Whilst it was a really difficult exam for me, I'm still proud and more than a little relieved to have passed.

The qualification requires knowledge on models and types of disability, universal design, demographics and accessibility standards and laws.

## The Exam

The exam itself was quite formal, as described by the clear guidance on IAAP's website. It was a closed book exam (no looking up the answers) - and I wasn't allowed anything in the exam room, not even a water bottle. Fortunately, I whizzed through the exam quite quickly, which, for good or for ill, seems ro be my style. 

Out of the 100 multiple choice questions, there were about ten questions that I really wasn't sure on. So after 30 minutes or so going through the questions, I'd got less than a dozen which I'ed flagged to go back to that I needed to mull over some more. Those ten were head-scratchers for me - not because I'd not covered the subject matter, but more because I was reading each question in multiple ways. So I took my best guess.

Driving home from the text centre, I reflected that I'd got at least two questions wrong. I didn't feel entirely confident that I'd not fluffed it, but a few weeks later, late on a Friday afternoon, I got that very good news!

## What next?

This was the first exam I've done in a good while and I'm not itching to do loads more. However, the next logical target to aim for would be the [Web Accessibility Specialist (WAS)](https://www.accessibilityassociation.org/s/wascertification) qualification. This, as the name suggests, would be a lot more web focussed, and much more technicall. In many ways, that's right up my street - so I think I have to start at least thinking about it in earnest now!